`Quiz 3 (Optional)` Regression Models
================

-   👨🏻‍💻 Author: Anderson H Uyekita
-   📚 Specialization: <a
    href="https://www.coursera.org/specializations/data-science-foundations-r"
    target="_blank" rel="noopener">Data Science: Foundations using R
    Specialization</a>
-   📖 Course:
    <a href="https://www.coursera.org/learn/regression-models"
    target="_blank" rel="noopener">Regression Models</a>
    -   🧑‍🏫 Instructor: Brian Caffo
-   📆 Week 3
    -   🚦 Start: Tuesday, 05 July 2022
    -   🏁 Finish: Tuesday, 05 July 2022
-   🌎 Rpubs: [Interactive
    Document](https://rpubs.com/AndersonUyekita/quiz-3_regression-models)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Question 1

You are being asked to participate in a research experiment with the
purpose of better understanding how people analyze data. If you complete
this quiz, you are giving your consent to participate in the study. This
quiz involves a short data analysis that gives you a chance to practice
the regression concepts you have learned so far.

**We anticipate that this will take about 15 minutes to complete. You
will be receiving feedback on your work immediately after submission.
For this reason, we ask that you do not post on the forums about this
quiz to maintain the integrity of this experiment.**

> Thank you for helping us learn more about data science! – Brian,
> Roger, Jeff

Your assignment is to study how income varies across different
categories of college majors. You will be using data from a study of
recent college graduates. Make sure to use good practices that you have
learned so far in this course and previous courses in the
specialization.

If you will proceed with the analysis, click “Yes”. Otherwise, click
“No” and exit the quiz.

-   [x] Yes
-   [ ] No

## Question 2

Your assignment is to study how income varies across college major
categories. Specifically answer: “Is there an association between
college major category and income?”

To get started, start a new R/RStudio session with a clean workspace. To
do this in R, you can use the q() function to quit, then reopen R. The
easiest way to do this in RStudio is to quit RStudio entirely and reopen
it. After you have started a new session, run the following commands.
This will load a data.frame called college for you to work with.

``` r
install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("jhudsl/collegeIncome")
library(collegeIncome)
data(college)
```

Next download and install the matahari R package with the following
commands:

``` r
devtools::install_github("jhudsl/matahari")
library(matahari)
```

This package allows a record of your analysis (your R command history)
to be documented. You will be uploading a file containing this record to
GitHub and submitting the link as part of this quiz.

Before you start the analysis for this assignment, enter the following
command to begin the documentation of your analysis:

``` r
dance_start(value = FALSE, contents = FALSE)
```

You can then proceed with the rest of your analysis in R as usual. When
you have finished your analysis, use the following command to save the
record of your analysis on your desktop:

``` r
dance_save("~/Desktop/college_major_analysis.rds")
```

Please upload this college_major_analysis.rds file to a public GitHub
repository. In question 4 of this quiz, you will share the link to this
file.

A codebook for the dataset is given below:

-   `ank`: Rank by median earnings
-   `major_code`: Major code
-   `major`: Major description
-   `major_category`: Category of major
-   `total`: Total number of people with major
-   `sample_size`: Sample size of full-time, year-round individuals used
    for income/earnings estimates: p25th, median, p75th
-   `p25th`: 25th percentile of earnings
-   `median`: Median earnings of full-time, year-round workers
-   `p75th`: 75th percentile of earnings
-   `perc_men`: % men with major (out of total)
-   `perc_women`: % women with major (out of total)
-   `perc_employed`: % employed (out of total)
-   `perc_employed_fulltime`: % employed 35 hours or more (out of
    employed)
-   `perc_employed_parttime`: % employed less than 35 hours (out of
    employed)
-   `perc_employed_fulltime_yearround`: % employed at least 50 weeks and
    at least 35 hours (out of employed and full-time)
-   `perc_unemployed`: % unemployed (out of employed)
-   `perc_college_jobs`: % with job requiring a college degree (out of
    employed)
-   `perc_non_college_jobs`: % with job not requiring a college degree
    (out of employed)
-   `perc_low_wage_jobs`: % in low-wage service jobs (out of total)

**Question:** Based on your analysis, would you conclude that there is a
significant association between college major category and income?

-   [ ] Yes
-   [ ] No

## Question 3

Please type a few sentences describing your results.

#### **Answer**

## Question 4

Please upload the file generated by matahari
(college_major_analysis.rds) to a **public** GitHub repository and paste
the link to that file here.

## Question 5
